Query Analytics logging docs (#5039)
elastic/docs-content: deploy-manage/monitor/logging-configuration/query-logs.md

---
applies_to:
  deployment:
    self: ga 9.4
---

# Full query logging [logging]

> {{es}} allows to log every search and query operation performed on the cluster. This supports endpoints like `_search`, `_msearch`, [{{esql}}](/explore-analyze/discover/try-esql.md), [SQL](elasticsearch://reference/query-languages/sql/sql-rest-format.md#_csv), [EQL](elasticsearch://reference/query-languages/eql/eql-syntax.md) and other APIs that search or query {{es}} indices.

Reviewer: > ...allows to log every **search and query** operation
> ...that **search or query** {{es}} indices.

We should try to unify everything under a single umbrella and not make any difference between "search and query operation". From the user standpoint, he's "querying" his data, whatever the query language he's using. Let's not ship our internal structure and implementation details to the user.

The following logging modules are available:

- `search`: Logs every search operation performed on the cluster.
- `esql`: Logs every query operation performed on the cluster using {{esql}}.
- `eql`: Logs every query operation performed on the cluster using EQL.
- `sql`: Logs every query operation performed on the cluster using SQL.

> By default, the logging is disabled. To enable the logging, set the `elasticsearch.activitylog.<MODULE>.enabled` property to `true` in the `elasticsearch.yml` configuration file or using the settings API, for example:

Reviewer 2: can we add a link to the cluster settings API doc https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/elasticsearch/operation/operation-cluster-put-settings?

The following configuration options are available:

- `elasticsearch.activitylog.<MODULE>.enabled`: Enables or disables logging for the specified module.
- `elasticsearch.activitylog.<MODULE>.threshold`: Sets the request duration threshold for logging events in the specified module. If the threshold is set to the value greater than 0, only the requests that take as much time or longer than the threshold are logged.
- `elasticsearch.activitylog.<MODULE>.include.user`: Enables or disables the user information logging for the specified module.

Additionally, for the search module:

- `elasticsearch.activitylog.search.include.system_indices`: Enables or disables logging of system indices for the search module.

## What is included in the log

The logs are output in JSON format, and include the following fields:

- `@timestamp`: The timestamp of the log entry.
- `log.level`: The log level (e.g., `WARN`, `INFO`, `DEBUG`, `TRACE`).
- `event.outcome`: Whether the request was successful (`success`) or not (`failure`).
- `event.duration`: How long (in nanoseconds) the request took to complete.
- `error.type` and `error.message`: Error information fields if the request failed.

> - `user.*`: User information fields if enabled.

Author: It really depends on Security plugin and how request is authorized... So we don't really have any part in this.

- `http.request.headers.x_opaque_id`: The X-Opaque-ID header value if enabled. See [X-Opaque-Id HTTP header](elasticsearch://reference/elasticsearch/rest-apis/api-conventions.md#x-opaque-id) for details and best practices.
- `elasticsearch.activitylog.type`: The type of operation (`search`, `esql`, etc.).
- `elasticsearch.activitylog.took`: How long (in nanoseconds) the request took to complete.
- `elasticsearch.activitylog.took_millis`: How long (in milliseconds) the request took to complete.

> - Additional fields specific to {{es}} environment may be added, for example:

Reviewer 2: hum.. I don't understand why we put this sentence
- `elasticsearch.activitylog.query` is an additional field specific to ES -> isn't it the case of all of the other fields starting with `elasticsearch.activitylog`?
- and why do we say "may" -> isn't it always added?

    - `elasticsearch.activitylog.query`: The query source (depends on the module).

> In addition to the fields listed above, each module may include fields specific to the module, prefixed with `elasticsearch.activitylog.`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition to the fields listed above, each query language may include fields specific to it, prefixed with `elasticsearch.activitylog.`
```

### Search

- `indices`: The indices that were searched in the request, as comma-separated values.
- `hits`: The number of hits returned by the request. There is a maximum of 10000 hits returned per request, and this value will also be capped by this limit.
- `is_system`: If system index logging is enabled, indicates whether the request was performed only on a system indices.

### EQL

- `indices`: The indices that were queried in the request,
- `hits`: The number of hits returned by the request. There is a maximum of 10000 hits returned per request, and this value will also be capped by this limit.

### SQL

> - `rows`: The number of rows returned by the request.

Reviewer: Let's rename to "hits" once changed in the code (for consistency)

> Example log entry:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Example log entry
```

	"elasticsearch.node.name": "node-1",
	"elasticsearch.cluster.name": "querying"
}
```

## Finding the logs [finding-query-logs]

The logs are always emitted on the node that executed the request. These logs can be viewed in the following locations:

* If [{{es}} monitoring](/deploy-manage/monitor/stack-monitoring.md) is enabled, from [Stack Monitoring](/deploy-manage/monitor/monitoring-data/visualizing-monitoring-data.md). The query logs have the `logger` value of `<MODULE>.activitylog`(e.g. `search.activitylog`).
* From the local {{es}} service logs directory. Slow log files have a suffix of `_<MODULE>_log.json` , e.g. `mycluster_search_log.json`.

## When and how to use query logging

While query logging is designed to have as little impact on the performance of your cluster as possible, it will necessarily consume resources needed to create and store the logs. Thus, it is advised to enable query logging only when necessary for troubleshooting or monitoring purposes, and to disable it after the investigation is complete. It is also recommended to set the threshold to avoid logging very fast queries that are of little consequence for cluster performance. 

> Query logging uses an asynchronous logging mechanism that does not block query execution. As a result, if there are too many incoming queries and the logging system can log store all the logs, some log entries may be lost. If that is a problem, consider increasing the thresholds to only log the most impactful queries. 

Reviewer: > and the logging system can **log** store all the logs

and the logging system can **not** store all the logs

---

applies_to:
  deployment:
self: ga 9.4

---

# Full query logging [logging]

{{es}} allows to log every querying operation performed on the cluster. This supports endpoints like `_search`, `_msearch`, [{{esql}}](/explore-analyze/discover/try-esql.md), [SQL](elasticsearch://reference/query-languages/sql/sql-rest-format.md#_csv), [EQL](elasticsearch://reference/query-languages/eql/eql-syntax.md) and other APIs that search or query {{es}} indices.

The following query types are supported:

> - `dsl`: Logs every search operation performed on the cluster.

Reviewer: I would rephrase to
> Logs every search operation performed on the cluster using the [Query DSL](https://www.elastic.co/docs/explore-analyze/query-filter/languages/querydsl)

- `esql`: Logs every query operation performed on the cluster using {{esql}}.
- `eql`: Logs every query operation performed on the cluster using EQL.
- `sql`: Logs every query operation performed on the cluster using SQL.

By default, the logging is turned off. To enable the logging, set the `elasticsearch.actionlog.enabled` property to `true` in the `elasticsearch.yml` configuration file or using the [settings API]({{es-apis}}operation/operation-cluster-put-settings):

```yaml
elasticsearch.actionlog.enabled: true
```

By default, search (`dsl`) queries that query only system indices are not logged. To enable logging of such queries, use the `elasticsearch.actionlog.search.include.system_indices` setting described below.

## Configuring query logging

The following configuration options are available:

- `elasticsearch.activitylog.enabled`: Enables or disables query logging.
- `elasticsearch.activitylog.threshold`: Sets the request duration threshold for logging events. If the threshold is set to the value greater than 0, only the requests that take as much time or longer than the threshold are logged.

> - `elasticsearch.activitylog.include.user`: Enables or disables the user information logging.

Reviewer: I would also mention whether this is enabled or disabled by default

- `elasticsearch.activitylog.include.user`: Enables or disables the user information logging (by default it is enabled).
- `elasticsearch.activitylog.search.include.system_indices`: Enables or disables logging of queries performed on system indices for the dsl search module. The default is not logging system indices. 

## What is included in the log

The logs are output in JSON format, and include the following fields:

- `@timestamp`: The timestamp of the log entry.
- `event.outcome`: Whether the request was successful (`success`) or not (`failure`).
- `event.duration`: How long (in nanoseconds) the request took to complete.
- `error.type` and `error.message`: Error information fields if the request failed.
- `user.*`: User information fields if enabled.
- `http.request.headers.x_opaque_id`: The X-Opaque-Id header value if enabled. See [X-Opaque-Id HTTP header](elasticsearch://reference/elasticsearch/rest-apis/api-conventions.md#x-opaque-id) for details and best practices.
- `trace.id`: [Trace ID](ecs://reference/ecs-tracing.md#field-trace-id) information.

### Query logging specific fields

- `elasticsearch.querylog.type`: The type of operation (`dsl`, `esql`, `sql`, `eql`).

> - `elasticsearch.querylog.took`: How long (in nanoseconds) the request took to complete.

Reviewer 2: how does this relate to `event.duration`?

Reviewer 3: would it make sense to state that here?

The following query types are supported:

- `dsl`: Logs every search operation performed on using the [Query DSL](/explore-analyze/query-filter/languages/querydsl.md).
- `esql`: Logs every query operation performed on the cluster using [{{esql}}](/explore-analyze/query-filter/languages/esql-kibana.md).
- `eql`: Logs every query operation performed on the cluster using [EQL](/explore-analyze/query-filter/languages/eql.md).
- `sql`: Logs every query operation performed on the cluster using [SQL](/explore-analyze/query-filter/languages/sql.md).

By default, the logging is turned off. To enable the logging, set the `elasticsearch.activitylog.enabled` property to `true` in the `elasticsearch.yml` configuration file or using the [settings API]({{es-apis}}operation/operation-cluster-put-settings):

```yaml
elasticsearch.activitylog.enabled: true
```

> 

Reviewer: @leemthompo see the revised "Finding the logs" section below

By default, search (`dsl`) queries that query only system indices are not logged. To enable logging of such queries, use the `elasticsearch.activitylog.search.include.system_indices` setting described below.

## Configuring query logging

The following configuration options are available:

- `elasticsearch.activitylog.enabled`: Enables or disables query logging. The default is `false` (disabled).
- `elasticsearch.activitylog.threshold`: Sets the request duration threshold for logging events. If the threshold is set to the value greater than 0, only the requests that take as much time (in milliseconds) or longer than the threshold are logged. The default is 0 (no threshold).
- `elasticsearch.activitylog.include.user`: Enables or disables the user information logging. The default is `true` (enabled by default).

> - `elasticsearch.activitylog.search.include.system_indices`: Enables or disables logging of queries performed on system indices for the dsl search module. The default is not logging system indices. 

Reviewer 3: just tries to use a consistent pattern

- `elasticsearch.querylog.result_count`: The number of results actually returned in the response. 
- `elasticsearch.querylog.is_system`: If system index logging is enabled, indicates whether the request was performed only on system indices.
- `elasticsearch.querylog.has_aggregations`: For a `dsl` search result, this boolean flag specifies whether the result has a non-empty aggregations section. 
- `elasticsearch.querylog.shards.successful`, `elasticsearch.querylog.shards.skipped`, `elasticsearch.querylog.shards.failed`: How many shards were successful, skipped and failed during the query execution. 
- `elasticsearch.querylog.is_ccs` - Indicates whether the request was a [{{ccs}}](/explore-analyze/cross-cluster-search.md). 
- `elasticsearch.querylog.remote_count` - For cross-cluster queries, this field indicates the number of remote clusters involved in the query execution. 
- `elasticsearch.querylog.is_remote` - For `dsl` queries, indicates whether the query was initiated by a remote cluster.

Additional fields specific to {{es}} environment may be added. 

> In addition to the fields listed above, each query language may include fields specific to it, prefixed with `elasticsearch.querylog.`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Query language specific fields

In addition to the fields listed above, each query language may include fields specific to it, prefixed with `elasticsearch.querylog.`
```

> ### DSL Search specific fields

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### `dsl` specific fields
```

- `search.total_count`: The “total hits” value, as reported by [the search response](/solutions/search/the-search-api.md). 
- `search.total_count_partial`:  Set to `true` in case the total count does not reflect the full number of matches for some reason (like [`track_total_hits` limitation](/solutions/search/the-search-api.md#track-total-hits)). 

> ### {{esql}}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### `esql` specific fields
```

  "elasticsearch.cluster.name": "querying"
}
```

Example failure entry:

```json
{
  "@timestamp": "2026-03-04T19:40:35.271Z",
  "log.level": "INFO",
  "auth.type": "REALM",
  "elasticsearch.querylog.indices": [
    "nonexistent_index_xyz"
  ],
  "elasticsearch.querylog.query": "any where true",
  "elasticsearch.querylog.result_count": 0,
  "elasticsearch.querylog.took": 1326334,
  "elasticsearch.querylog.took_millis": 1,
  "elasticsearch.querylog.type": "eql",
  "error.message": "no such index [Unknown index [nonexistent_index_xyz]]",
  "error.type": "org.elasticsearch.index.IndexNotFoundException",
  "event.duration": 1326334,
  "event.outcome": "failure",
  "http.request.headers.x_opaque_id": "opaque-1772653234",
  "user.name": "elastic",
  "user.realm": "reserved",
  "ecs.version": "1.2.0",
  "service.name": "ES_ECS",
  "event.dataset": "elasticsearch.querylog",
  "process.thread.name": "elasticsearch[node-1][search_coordination][T#6]",
  "log.logger": "elasticsearch.querylog",
  "elasticsearch.cluster.uuid": "gjYgb-uQQAuLmDoKlQInZw",
  "elasticsearch.node.id": "juurGSfgRYGwTP2ttZbtOQ",
  "elasticsearch.node.name": "node-1",
  "elasticsearch.cluster.name": "querying"
}
```

> ## Finding the logs [finding-query-logs]

Reviewer: I will provide an update to this paragraph as Stack Monitoring being enabled is not sufficient for either finding or viewing the logs. We first need to provide some pointers as to how to install the new Filebeat module that will tail those new logs. Stay tuned...

The logs are always emitted on the node that executed the request. These logs can be viewed in the following locations:

- If [{{es}} monitoring](/deploy-manage/monitor/stack-monitoring.md) is enabled, from [Stack Monitoring](/deploy-manage/monitor/monitoring-data/visualizing-monitoring-data.md). The query logs have the `log.logger` field set to `elasticsearch.querylog`.
- From the local {{es}} service logs directory. Query log files have a suffix of `_querylog.json` , e.g. `mycluster_querylog.json`.

> ## When and how to use query logging

Author: OK I'll move it higer.

While query logging is designed to have as little impact on the performance of your cluster as possible, it will necessarily consume resources needed to create and store the logs. Thus, it is advised to enable query logging only when necessary for troubleshooting or monitoring purposes, and to disable it after the investigation is complete. It is also recommended to set the threshold to avoid logging very quick queries that are of little consequence for cluster performance. 

Query logging uses an asynchronous logging mechanism that does not block query execution. As a result, if there are too many incoming queries and the logging system can not store all the logs fast enough, some log entries may be lost. If that is a problem, consider increasing the thresholds to only log the most impactful queries. 

## Learn more [_learn_more]

> To learn about other ways to optimize your search requests, refer to [tune for search speed](/deploy-manage/production-guidance/optimize-performance/search-speed.md).

Author: If you'd like to provide links you think make sense here, I'll add them.

> To learn about other ways to optimize your search requests, refer to [tune for search speed](/deploy-manage/production-guidance/optimize-performance/search-speed.md).

Reviewer: I think a natural companion link to add here is the new [Query activity](https://www.elastic.co/docs/deploy-manage/monitor/query-activity) UI in Kibana that basically shows all in flight queries before they appear in this new query log.

- `elasticsearch.querylog.clusters.partial` - Indicates the number of partially successful clusters involved in the query execution. Only set if there were any partially successful clusters.
- `elasticsearch.querylog.clusters.remotes` - Enumerates other clusters or projects involved in the query execution.
- `elasticsearch.querylog.is_remote` - For `dsl` queries, indicates whether the query was initiated by another cluster.

Additional fields specific to {{es}} environment may be added. 

In addition to the fields listed above, each query language may include fields specific to it, prefixed with `elasticsearch.querylog.`.

### Fields specific to Query DSL

- `search.total_count`: The “total hits” value, as reported by [the search response](/solutions/search/the-search-api.md). 
- `search.total_count_partial`: Set to `true` in case the total count does not reflect the full number of matches for some reason (like [`track_total_hits` limitation](/solutions/search/the-search-api.md#track-total-hits)). 

### Fields specific to {{esql}}

- `esql.profile.*.took`: {{esql}} query profiling metrics, in nanoseconds

## Example log entry

### Query DSL

```json

> {

Author: In real log they won't be sorted though. And it will make it a bit harder to update those examples further on, as copy-paste won't work anymore.

- `sql`: Logs every query operation performed on the cluster using [SQL](elasticsearch://reference/query-languages/sql.md).

## Enable query logging

By default, query logging is turned off. To enable logging, set the `elasticsearch.querylog.enabled` property to `true` in the `elasticsearch.yml` configuration file:

```yaml
elasticsearch.querylog.enabled: true
```
Alternatively, use the [cluster settings API]({{es-apis}}operation/operation-cluster-put-settings).

Queries that query only system indices are not logged by default. To enable logging these queries, use the `elasticsearch.querylog.include.system_indices` setting described in [the configuration section](#configure-query-logging).

## Finding the logs [finding-query-logs]

Query logs are always emitted on the node that executed the request. These logs can be viewed in the following locations:

- If [{{es}} monitoring](/deploy-manage/monitor/stack-monitoring.md) is enabled, from [Stack Monitoring](/deploy-manage/monitor/monitoring-data/visualizing-monitoring-data.md). The query logs have the `log.logger` field set to `elasticsearch.querylog`.

> - From the local {{es}} service logs directory. Query log files have a suffix of `_querylog.json`. For example: `mycluster_querylog.json`.

Reviewer: We need to revise the "Finding the logs" section entirely. Here are some important bullet points:

(@leemthompo I hope it's fine I'm not providing prose here, but bullet points instead, as I wanted to get the main important points across)

**1. What can the users expect from 9.4 onwards?**
* Query logs can be found on any 9.4+ Elasticsearch node that can coordinate local or remote queries. The  [logs directory](https://www.elastic.co/docs/reference/elasticsearch/index-settings/path) on the node contains a new log file with the `_querylog.json` suffix, e.g. For example: `mycluster_querylog.json`
* ES 9.4 ships with a managed index template called `logs-elasticsearch.querylog@template` that defines the mappings and settings for the data stream where the query logs are expected to be indexed in
    * the supported index pattern is `logs-elasticsearch.querylog-*`
    * the data stream leverages the LogsDB indexing mode
    * when enabled, by default all queries are logged (i.e. the default threshold is 0ms). Add a note to watch out for the query volume and tune the threshold accordingly)
    * the pre-configured data stream lifecycle has a default retention of 2d (to prevent the data stream from growing too large in case of high query volume)
    * the failure store is enabled with a retention of 7d
    * the managed data stream is visible and manageable directly in Streams

**2. How can the users collect the new query logs from 9.4 onwards?**
* Filebeat 9.4 comes with an updated `elasticsearch` module that includes a new `querylog` fileset that helps collect those logs and send them to the above data stream. Just enable the `querylog` fileset and you're good to go.
  * Add link to Filebeat documentation that will be available at https://www.elastic.co/docs/reference/beats/filebeat/filebeat-module-elasticsearch#_querylog_log_fileset_settings
* The Elastic Agent `elasticsearch` integration (as of v1.21.0) also enables the collection of the new Elasticsearch query logs via the Elastic Agent.
  * The integration also bundles the following assets for a more optimal onboarding experience (which can be installed regardless of whether the Elastic Agent is used to collect the logs)
    * the `Elasticsearch query logs` data view (on top of the `logs-elasticsearch.querylog-*` index pattern)
    * the `Elasticsearch query analytics` dashboard that display query analytics  
  * Add link to the integration documentation that will be available at https://www.elastic.co/docs/reference/integrations/elasticsearch#querylog
* Elastic recommends that the monitoring cluster receiving the new query logs also be in 9.4 for an optimal experience. Clusters with earlier versions are not supported as they might not accept the logs, or only partly.

**3. Which users can see those new query logs and where?**
* For self-managed users
   * on a standalone install: you need to either run Filebeat 9.4 or version 1.21.0+ of the `elasticsearch` Elastic Agent integration in order to collect the log file.
      * Important note: The managed data stream where the query logs are indexed in is different from the `filebeat-*` one that usually hosts Stack Monitoring logs. Hence, the user that Filebeat uses to publish the query logs needs to have a role that has an [additional index privilege](https://www.elastic.co/docs/reference/beats/filebeat/privileges-to-publish-events) to index data in the `logs-elasticsearch.querylog-*` index pattern.
   * on ECK: this is automatically wired by the [default Filebeat configuration](https://www.elastic.co/docs/deploy-manage/deploy/cloud-on-k8s/configuration-examples-beats#k8s_filebeat_with_autodiscover)
   * on ECE: this is planned for the next minor version
* For ECH users
   * On 9.4 deployments, if Logs & Metrics is enabled, the new query log file is collected via Filebeat 9.4 transparently, the user only needs to [enable the feature](#configure-query-logging) in order to start shipping their query logs to their monitoring deployment (calling out again that 9.4 is recommended)

**4. Where can the new query logs be inspected?**
* In the destination cluster, they can
  * either install the assets bundled in the Elastic Agent `elasticsearch` integration as described above and head to the dashboard
  * or create a custom data view on top of `logs-elasticsearch.querylog-*` and then use Discover to filter for `event.dataset: elasticsearch.querylog`

Reviewer: @leemthompo I think we're good with the above. Let me know if you have any questions

## Configure query logging  [configure-query-logging]

The following configuration options are available:

- `elasticsearch.querylog.enabled`: Enables or disables query logging. Set to `true` to enable. Defaults to `false`.

> - `elasticsearch.querylog.threshold`: Sets the request duration threshold (in milliseconds) for logging events. If greater than 0, only requests with durations equal to or greater than the threshold are logged. The default is 0.

Reviewer: @smalyshev this setting doesn't accept plain numeric values, but time-based ones, i.e. `"1s"` but not `1`. So we need to change that settings description to something similar as other time-based settings.

Author: updated

---
description: Log every search operation on an Elasticsearch cluster including Query DSL, ES|QL, EQL, and SQL query types, with configurable duration thresholds and per-field output control.
applies_to:
  deployment:
    self: preview 9.4
    ech: preview
    eck: preview

>     ece: preview

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  stack: preview 9.4
```

I assume this is an {{es}} feature that can be used in any deployment type.

Reviewer 3: thanks Edu, yep only serverless is currently unavailable 👍

- **Who is running queries?** When user logging is enabled, trace queries back to specific users or API keys.

Query logging is designed to minimize performance impact, but it does consume resources to create and store log entries. Enable it when you need it, and disable it when the investigation is complete. Use the [threshold setting](#configure-query-logging) to filter out fast queries that are not relevant to your analysis.

Query logging uses an asynchronous mechanism that does not block query execution. If the volume of incoming queries exceeds the logging system's write capacity, some entries may be dropped. If that happens, raise the threshold to log only the most impactful queries.

### Migrate to query logging

Query logging supersedes [slow logs](/deploy-manage/monitor/logging-configuration/slow-logs.md) and [ES|QL query logging](elasticsearch://reference/query-languages/esql/esql-query-log.md). We recommend migrating to query logging for more comprehensive and robust logging.

To migrate:

1. [Enable query logging](#set-up-query-logging).

> 2. Set the [threshold](#configure-query-logging) to match your previous slow log levels.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Set the [threshold](#configure-query-logging) to match your previous slow log or {{esql}} query log levels.
```

3. Disable the old logging.
4. Switch to the new query log output.

The log format remains JSON, but some field names differ. To compare field names, refer to the [field reference](#log-field-reference) and [examples](#example-query-log-entries).

Query logging differs from slow logs and ES|QL query logging in the following ways:

- Query logs capture the end-to-end request duration as measured by {{es}}, while slow logs only capture shard-level execution time.
- Only query operations are supported, not indexing operations.
- Per-index logging is not available.
- Only one threshold level is supported, not multiple threshold levels.

## Set up query logging

By default, query logging is turned off. The setup to enable, collect, and ship query logs depends on your deployment type. In all cases, query log entries are written on the [coordinating node](/deploy-manage/distributed-architecture/clusters-nodes-shards/node-roles.md#coordinating-only-node-role) for each request as `*_querylog.json` files in the {{es}} [log directory](/deploy-manage/monitor/logging-configuration.md).

:::{important}

> If you ship query logs to a separate destination cluster, that cluster must run {{es}} 9.4 or later. Sending this stream to pre-9.4 {{es}} versions is not supported. Ingest can fail, or the cluster may only apply some of the index mappings and settings.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
If you ship query logs to a separate destination cluster, that cluster must run {{es}} 9.4 or later. Sending this stream to pre-9.4 {{es}} versions is not supported. Ingest can fail, or some index mappings and settings might not be applied.
```

Reviewer 5: I think the suggested change is clearer, but if you want to keep the original phrasing, I'd at least change `may` to `might` and move the `only`:

...`the cluster might apply only some of the index mappings and settings`

:::{important}
**Index privileges for the user that Filebeat or Agent uses**

The `logs-elasticsearch.querylog-default` data stream is a separate destination from `filebeat-*` indices that often store [{{stack}} monitoring](/deploy-manage/monitor/stack-monitoring.md) metrics and logs. Grant the output user in {{es}} the index and ingest privileges the managed data stream needs for `logs-elasticsearch.querylog-*`, in addition to anything you allow for `filebeat-*` or other indices. The exact role name is your choice. The critical part is the extra privilege on the querylog data stream.
:::

:::::

::::::

### Managed data stream and index template

The managed index template, `logs-elasticsearch.querylog@template`, is used for the `logs-elasticsearch.querylog-*` data stream. The template provides mappings and data stream options to ensure shipped events land in a single, ECS-aligned destination you can use with {{kib}} and the Elastic Agent or {{beats}} assets that ship with the product.

The `logs-elasticsearch.querylog-*` data stream is initialized with the following configurations and default behaviors:

> * **Index mode:** the data stream uses [LogsDB](/manage-data/data-store/data-streams/logs-data-stream.md) indexing.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* **Index mode:** The data stream uses [LogsDB](/manage-data/data-store/data-streams/logs-data-stream.md) indexing.
```

> * **Query volume:** when logging is enabled, the default `elasticsearch.querylog.threshold` is `0` in [time units](elasticsearch://reference/elasticsearch/rest-apis/api-conventions.md#time-units), so every request can be eligible depending on other options. A busy cluster can produce a very large number of lines. [Raise the threshold](#configure-query-logging) if you need to cap volume.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* **Query volume:** When logging is enabled, the default `elasticsearch.querylog.threshold` is `0` in [time units](elasticsearch://reference/elasticsearch/rest-apis/api-conventions.md#time-units), so every request can be eligible depending on other options. A busy cluster can produce a very large number of lines. [Raise the threshold](#configure-query-logging) if you need to cap volume.
```

> * **Retention and failure handling:** a default [data stream lifecycle](/manage-data/lifecycle/data-stream.md) is attached with a 2 day retention window so the data stream does not grow without bound. The [failure store](/manage-data/data-store/data-streams/failure-store.md) is on, with a 7 day retention for failed ingest.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* **Retention and failure handling:** A default [data stream lifecycle](/manage-data/lifecycle/data-stream.md) is attached with a 2 day retention window so the data stream does not grow without bound. The [failure store](/manage-data/data-store/data-streams/failure-store.md) is on, with a 7 day retention for failed ingest.
```

> * **Management UI:** you can also manage the data stream lifecycle, routing, and related controls in the [Streams](/solutions/observability/streams/streams.md) app.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* **Management UI:** You can also manage the data stream lifecycle, routing, and related controls in the [Streams](/solutions/observability/streams/streams.md) app.
```

### Fields specific to query logging

These fields are specific to query logging and common for all query languages.

- `elasticsearch.querylog.type`: The type of operation (`dsl`, `esql`, `sql`, `eql`).
- `elasticsearch.querylog.took`: How long the request took to complete, in nanoseconds. This is the same value as `event.duration`.
- `elasticsearch.querylog.took_millis`: How long (in milliseconds) the request took to complete.
- `elasticsearch.querylog.timed_out`: Boolean specifying whether the query timed out.
- `elasticsearch.querylog.query`: The query text (depending on the query language, could be string or JSON).
- `elasticsearch.querylog.indices`: Array containing the indices that were requested. These may not be fully resolved. May contain wildcards and index expressions, and it is not guaranteed these resolve to any specific index or exist at all. Not supported for `sql` or `esql` queries.
- `elasticsearch.querylog.result_count`: The number of results actually returned in the response.
- `elasticsearch.querylog.is_system`: If system index logging is enabled, indicates whether the request was performed only on system indices.

> - `elasticsearch.querylog.has_aggregations`: For a `dsl` search result, this boolean flag specifies whether the result has a non-empty aggregations section.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- `elasticsearch.querylog.has_aggregations`: For a `dsl` search result, this Boolean flag specifies whether the result has a non-empty aggregations section.
```

Author: I thought we always write "boolean" in lowercase? E.g. https://www.elastic.co/docs/reference/query-languages/query-dsl/query-dsl-bool-query
